---
title: "Young Mozart: What is a Genius?"
videoid: uYWKxjB3zeY
videolink: http://tonks.darienlibrary.org/1/archives/video/learnmore/20180124_mozart.mov
videoformat: MOV
category: learnmore
layout: video
published: yes
---

On Wednesday, January 24, 2018, Gil Harel, PhD kicked off the first in his new Mozart lecture series. 

Regarded as perhaps the ultimate "Wunderkind" (child genius), Mozart's younger years were filled with endless tours as he played for monarchs, popes, and other members of the powerful elite. During this program we will consider anecdotes and testimonials from those who met and wrote about the young prodigy, and we will listen to works that date to before his 20th birthday. After evaluating the evidence, the term "genius" will be considered in depth.

About the Presenter
Gil Harel (PhD, Brandeis University) is a musicologist and music theorist whose primary research focuses on the choral music of J.S. Bach. In addition to baroque vocal music, his musical interests include styles ranging from jazz to popular music, as well as opera, renaissance music, and contemporary genres. In addition to serving on the faculty at Baruch College in New York City, Gil has lectured at Brandeis University and has taught at the Allegro Music School in Natick, Massachusetts. In 2014, he was appointed Assistant Director of the Jewish Studies Center at Baruch College. He is also an experienced jazz pianist and tenor vocalist who has performed with various groups in the New York/New England area.
